United Academics/UVM Agreement
7/1/2002 - 6/30/2005

ARTICLE 15

EVALUATION OF FACULTY AND REAPPOINTMENT, PROMOTION AND TENURE CRITERIA
AND PROCEDURES

3. Department/School RPT and Annual Review Guidelines 

The following sections describe the criteria and standards of
performance as well as the procedures under which judgments in annual
reviews are made on the achievement and the potential of candidates
for reappointment, promotion and tenure (RPT). In addition to these
sections, all academic departments and all academic units with
responsibility for making the first recommendation in RPT cases are
required to prepare RPT and Annual Review guidelines that elaborate on
these criteria, standards and procedures. Such guidelines should
include additional specific descriptions of expectations for job
performance in the areas of evaluation and of procedures to be
followed in making RPT decisions and annual evaluations. Under no
circumstances can such department/school guidelines establish lesser
obligations or standards than stated elsewhere in this Article.

In preparing such guidelines all department/school faculty, tenured
and untenured, shall have an opportunity to provide input into what
these criteria and procedures should be. The Dean must approve any
departmental RPT and Annual Review guidelines. The Provost must
approve RPT and Annual Review guidelines prepared by an academic unit
other than a department. As an alternative to creating such additional
guidelines, a department may elect to use the guidelines issued by a
College. In such cases, the department shall notify the Dean in
writing no later than January 30, 2004.

Departments and academic units with responsibility for making the
first recommendation in promotion cases must have approved guidelines
(criteria and procedures) for promotion to Senior Lecturer by June 1,
2003. Departments and academic units with responsibility for making
the first recommendation in RPT cases must have approved RPT and
Annual Review Guidelines no later than March 15, 2004. Such
guidelines, as well as any College or School guidelines, shall be
distributed to all bargaining unit members to whom they apply and must
be included in the dossier of every candidate for reappointment,
promotion and tenure. One copy of all approved department/school
guidelines and College/School guidelines will also be sent to the
Union.
