Department of Computer Science
University of Vermont

Consideration of Cases of Promotion to 
Research Associate Professor and Research Professor

1. A faculty member may become a candidate for promotion by personal
request or by recommendation of the Department Chair (Officers'
Handbook 231.1). For professors in Statistics the faculty member would
normally discuss this first with the Director of the Statistics
Program. Because of college and university deadline dates and the need
to seek external evaluations, it is important that this is done by the
end of the appropriate Spring semester. Planning for the promotion
consideration can then take place as needed over the following summer
and early Fall of the academic year to be considered.

2. The Department Chair, in consultation with the Program Director,
will appoint an advisory committee to review the credentials of the
candidate for promotion. The committee will contain at least two
departmental faculty members with primary appointments in statistics,
one of whom would serve as Chair. If possible the committee will
contain at least one department faculty member with a primary research
professorial appointment. The committee will be provided with all
relevant documents concerning the academic activities of the
candidate.

3. Each candidate is required to submit to the Advisory Committee
Chair the names of at least six persons capable of reviewing the
research of the candidate. These persons should not be co-authors with
the candidate and should be external to the University. The candidate
should also submit a list of co-authors as well as other faculty at
the University who have expert knowledge of the candidate's research
work, noting those whom the candidate wishes to add to the list of
potential evaluators.

4. For external and internal evaluation the candidate will supply the
Advisory Committee Chair with sufficient copies of all published
articles and any preprints which have been accepted or submitted to
refereed journals. (The Department will photocopy additional copies as
needed.)  In addition the candidate should supply sufficient copies of
an updated curriculum vitae and any other relevant materials. The
candidate will write the first part of the Green Sheets to summarize
their activities since their initial appointment or last promotion.

5. The Advisory Committee Chair, in consultation with the Department
Chair, will select no fewer than five external reviewers who will be
asked to comment on the research of the candidate. At least three of
these reviewers will be taken from the list provided by the
candidate. These external reviewers will be informed of all pertinent
facts regarding the candidate and the current status of their research
work environment and the department. They will receive the candidate's
C.V. and a selection of publication-related materials chosen in
consultation with the Department Chair and the candidate. In addition,
a selection of the candidate's principal research collaborators will
be asked to comment on the candidate's research program, particularly
with respect to their own joint work with the candidate. They would be
asked to comment on the contributions of the candidate to jointly
authored papers or research proposals.

6. If the candidate has performed significant teaching or service work
during the period of time to be reviewed, they may choose to have that
work evaluated as well. If so, then the teaching and service would be
evaluated in a manner similar to that used by the department in
evaluating promotions to Associate Professor and Professor.

7. The advisory committee will review all material concerning the
candidate's academic activities and will determine whether or not to
recommend the candidate for promotion to the requested rank. The
committee will meet with the Department Chair to report its findings.

8. In accordance with Section 231.1 of the Faculty Handbook of the
University the Department Chair will also consult in a timely manner
with all other faculty members of the Department to request their
advice concerning the candidate. The manner of consultation and the
nature of the advice received will be included among materials sent
for further review, as described below.

9. The Department Chair will convene a meeting of all faculty with
primary appointment at least at the rank being considered (associate
or full, as appropriate) to discuss the promotion of the
candidate. Before this meeting all relevant documents (reprints,
preprints, abstracts, letters from evaluators, C.V., the candidate's
portion of the green sheets, etc) will be available for inspection by
these members of the faculty for at least one week. At this meeting
the advisory committee chair (or their substitute) will report its
findings to the faculty. The faculty will give their advice to the
Department Chair on the matter, and a vote will be taken to recommend
or not. Faculty members are encouraged to supply comments in
explanation of their vote. This vote will be recorded and will be
forwarded to the Dean of the College with the formal documentation if
the Department Chair decides to recommend promotion.

10. After the procedures described above have been carried out, the
Department Chair will decide whether to recommend promotion. If the
decision is not to recommend promotion, then the Chair will inform the
candidate in writing of the decision, giving reasons. If the decision
is to recommend promotion, all the formal documentation will be
forwarded to the Dean of the College.

11. See other subsections of Section 230 of the Officers Handbook for
other university procedures for promotion consideration.
