Department of Computer Science
University of Vermont

Procedures in Cases of Promotion to the Rank of Professor
*********************************************************

1. An associate professor who wishes to be considered for promotion to
the rank of full professor must notify the Department Chair of this
desire no later than the beginning of the academic year preceding the
year in which the new rank is to take effect.

Although no minimum time at the rank of associate professor is
required, promotion to the rank of professor implies a
well-established record of excellence in teaching, research, and
service norma1ly found only in those who have served at least five
years at the rank of associate professor. At a minimum the candidate
for promotion to full professor should have an established national or
international reputation for excellence in at least one of the areas
of teaching, research) or service.

2. At the beginning of each academic year the Department Chair will
appoint a committee of full professors to review the credentials of
all candidates for promotion to the rank of full professor during the
ensuing academic year. The membership of this committee need not
coincide with that of the advisory committee for promotion to the rank
of associate professor, although the two committees may have some
members in common. The committee will be provided by the Department
Chair with all relevant documents concerning the teaching, research,
and service of each candidate. If possible the committee will contain
at least one member with expertise in the research area of each
candidate.

3. Each candidate is required to submit to the Department Chair the
names of at least six persons capable of reviewing the research of the
candidate. These persons should not be co-authors with the candidate
and should be external to the University. The candidate should also
submit a list of co- authors, noting those whom the candidate wishes
to add to the list of potential evaluators.

4. The candidate will supply the Department Chair with up to ten
copies of all published articles and any other preprints the candidate
may wish to have considered. (If sufficiently many copies are not
available) the Department will make photocopies.) In addition the
candidate should supply ten copies of an updated curriculum vitae and
any other relevant materials. If in the judgment of the Department
Chair the total volume of publications is too large to be sent to all
reviewers, the Chair may, after consulting with the candidate, send a
representative selection.

5. The Department Chair, in consultation with the advisory committee,
will select no fewer than five external reviewers who will be asked to
comment on the research of the candidate. A t least three of these
reviewers will be taken from the list provided by the candidate. These
external reviewers will be informed of all pertinent facts regarding
the current status of the Department of Mathematics and Statistics.

6. The candidate's teaching will be evaluated in a manner similar to
that of the research. That is, the candidate will provide the
Department Chair with a list of former students (at least 3 former
undergraduate students and 3 former graduate students whom the
candidate has taught). The Department Chair will contact at least five
former students, including at least three names from the list provided
by the candidate, and ask them to comment on the teaching of the
candidate. In addition, all relevant course evaluation forms, reports
of visitations by peers, comments from co-participants in the
candidate's seminars, etc" will be provided to the advisory committee,

7. In accordance with Section 231.1 of the Faculty Handbook, the
Department Chair will also consult in a timely manner with all tenured
and non-tenured members of the Department below the rank of professor
to solicit their advice concerning the candidate. The manner of
consultation and the nature of the advice received will be included
among materials sent for further review, as described in Paragraph 10
below.

8. The advisory committee will review all material concerning the
candidate's teaching, research, and service, and will determine
whether or not to recommend the candidate for promotion to the rank of
professor. The advisory committee will meet with the Department Chair
to report its findings.

9. The Department Chair will convene a meeting of all tenured full
professors to discuss the promotion of the candidate. Before this
n1eeting all relevant documents (reprints of publications, course
evaluations, abstracts, letters from external evaluators, and the
like) will be available for inspection by the tenured full professors
for at least one week. At this meeting the advisory con1mittee will
report its findings to the tenured full professors. The tenured full
professors will give their advice to the Department Chair on the
matter, and a vote will be taken to recommend or not. Tenured full
professors are encouraged to supply comments in explanation of their
vote. This vote will be recorded and will be forwarded to the Dean of
the College with the formal documentation if the Department Chair
decides to recommend promotion.

10. After the procedures described above have been carried out, the
Department Chair will decide whether to recommend promotion and will
inform the candidate in writing of the decision, giving reasons if the
decision is not to recommend. If the decision is to recommend
promotion, all the formal documentation will be forwarded to the Dean
of the College. In the event of a negative decision, the candidate may
appeal, following the procedures described in Section 231.6 of the
Faculty Handbook.
